# Fetching Data with useEffect

## Overview

In terms of a React component, the _main effect_ of the component is to return
some JSX. One of the first rules we learned about function components is that
they take in props, and return JSX.

_However_, it's often necessary for a component to perform some _side effects_
in addition to its main job of returning JSX. For example, we might want to:

- Fetch some data from an API when a component loads
- Start or stop a timer
- Manually change the DOM
- Get the user's location

In order to handle these kinds of side effects within our components, we'll need
to use another special _hook_ from React: `useEffect`.

It looks like this:

```js
import { useEffect } from "react";

function App() {
  useEffect(
    // side effect function
    () => {
      console.log("Running side effect");
    },
    // dependencies array
    []
  );

  console.log("Rendering component");

  return <h1>App</h1>;
}
```

If you run the example code now, you'll see the console messages appear in this
order:

- Component rendering
- useEffect called

So we are now able to run some extra code as a _side effect_ after our component
is rendered!

Be sure to check out the
[React docs on useEffect](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html) for more
examples as we go through these exercises.

For now, let's see a practical use for the `useEffect` hook: to fetch data from
an API when our application loads.

## Exercise

In the exercise, we have a component set up where we can fetch data when a user
clicks a button. It'd be a much nicer user experience to fetch that data as soon
as the user visits the page and our components are rendered, instead of making
them click a button! The `useEffect` hook can help us out with this.

Follow the instructions in the `exercise/01.js` file to use the `useEffect`
hook. If your code works correctly, you should be able to fetch the images from
the server and display them without needing to click the button.

As you're working, check the console to see when your component re-renders. If
you notice you component is caught in an _infinite loop_ of fetching data,
setting state, and re-rendering, check the following:

- Is your `fetch` written _inside_ the `useEffect` callback function?
- Did you include the second argument of an empty array in the `useEffect`
  function?

If you're stuck, check out this
[example from the React docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/faq-ajax.html#example-using-ajax-results-to-set-local-state)
(at the bottom of the page, you'll find an example using the `useEffect` hook).

### Extra Credit

When we're fetching data from an API, it can sometimes take a long time for the
server to send back a response for any number of reasons:

- The user's network is slow
- The server's network is slow
- The database operation is slow
- Etc

In cases like these, it's a good idea to show some kind of indication to our
users that work is being done in the background by showing some kind of loading
indicator.

For extra credit, update the App component:

- when the component first renders, display a `<h1>` element that says
  "Loading..."
- when the we have the image data from the server, display the images

> Hint: you may need to add new state to your component to keep track of the
> status of the fetch request, and update it when a new response comes back!

It may be tough to see the loading indicator in real time depending on how fast
the API is able to respond. You can
[use the Dev Tools to simulate a slow network](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/device-mode#network)
if you want to check on your loading indicator implementation.
