# Styling HTML Elements

## Overview

There are many ways we can style components in React using CSS. The simplest way
is to just create a CSS file:

```css
/* index.css */

h1 {
  color: "red";
}
```

And import it in our component:

```js
import "./index.css";

function App() {
  return <h1>Hello World</h1>;
}
```

One issue with this approach is that we have to keep track of all our our
components separately from how they are styled, and this _breaks the idea of
encapsulation_ that components can offer.

We can also use _inline styles_, and style each element directly:

```js
function App() {
  return <h1 style={{ color: "red" }}>Hello World</h1>;
}
```

However, as our apps grow in complexity, this makes it more challenging to
manage our styles; and there are limitations to what we can do with inline
styles. For example, styling CSS selectors like `:hover` and `:focus` won't work
with this approach.

To solve these problems, a new kind of solution emerged, called _CSS-in-JS_,
which allows developers to write their CSS code in JavaScript files alongside
component code. `styled-components` is one of the most popular CSS-in-JS
solutions out there, so let's see how it works!

### Using `styled-components`

As a basic example, let's try to refactor this component to use
`styled-components` instead of an inline `style` prop.

```js
function App() {
  return <h1 style={{ color: "red" }}>Hello World</h1>;
}
```

First, we import the `styled-components` library to the component file:

```js
import styled from "styled-components";

function App() {
  return <h1 style={{ color: "red" }}>Hello World</h1>;
}
```

Then, we can use `styled` to create a _component_ with CSS applied to it:

```js
import styled from "styled-components";

const Header = styled.h1`
  color: red;
`;

function App() {
  return <Header>Hello World</Header>;
}
```

Let's break down that syntax a bit.

`styled.h1` uses the `styled-components` library to create a `<h1>` element. We
can use any valid DOM element we want - like `styled.div`; `styled.button`;
`styled.a`; etc.

Inside the backticks, we can write any CSS definitions we want! Here's an
example (you can edit this code if you want to play around with the styles):

```js live=true render=true
const Header = styled.h2`
  color: red;
  border: 2px solid orange;
  background-color: papayawhip;
  padding: 8px;
`;

render(<Header>I'm a styled header</Header>);
```

> If you're curious about that syntax: The code in the backticks \` \` is known
> as a [tagged template][tagged_template] &mdash; a feature of JavaScript that
> allows template literals to be treated like a function.

In addition to this friendly syntax for writing CSS in our components,
`styled-components` offers a number of other benefits:

- _Reusable components_: The `<Header>` component in our example is just a React
  component, so we can reuse it anywhere else we want a component with the same
  style.
- _CSS Scoping_: Whenever we create a new component with `styled-components`, it
  creates a custom CSS class definition. This makes it harder for us to
  accidentally apply the styles meant for one component to another (like if we
  just had a CSS file).

## Exercise

> For VSCode users, it's recommended that you install the
> [styled-components extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=jpoissonnier.vscode-styled-components)
> to help with syntax highlighting.

In this exercise, there are a couple of elements that are styled with an inline
`style` prop.

Your job is to refactor these elements to use `styled-components`.

> Hint: in React, the style prop expects keys that are _camelCase_, like
> `borderRadius`. When you write these styles in CSS, make sure to write them in
> _kebab-case_ instead, like `border-radius`.

### Extra Credit

Using `styled-components`, you can also easily style different
[pseudo-classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes)
on the element, like `:hover` and `:focus`, simply by adding these definitions
to your component's CSS:

```js
const Header = styled.h1`
  color: red;

  &:hover {
    color: blue;
  }
`;
```

Update your button's styles using pseudo-classes like `:hover` and `:focus`,
then try interacting with the button in the browser to see your changes! You can
also try
[toggling the pseudo-classes manually](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/css/reference)
in Chrome's Dev Tools.

> In `styled-components`, the `&` character has a special significance:
> [it refers back to the main component itself](https://styled-components.com/docs/basics#pseudoelements-pseudoselectors-and-nesting)!
> So in the example above, we're adding a rule that will apply when the `Header`
> component is hovered over by the user.

[tagged_template]:
  https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals#tagged_templates
