# Styling with Props

One of the killer features of `styled-components` is the ability to use _props_
to make our styles dynamic. For example, we could make a reusable button
component that changes some of its styles based on the props we give it:

```js live=true render=true
const Button = styled.button`
  background: ${props => (props.primary ? "dodgerblue" : "white")};
  color: ${props => (props.primary ? "white" : "dodgerblue")};
  padding: 16px;
  margin: 8px;
  font-size: ${props => (props.size === "large" ? "1.5rem" : "1rem")};
  border: 2px solid dodgerblue;
  border-radius: 4px;
  cursor: pointer;
`;

function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Button>A normal button</Button>
      <Button primary>A primary button</Button>
      <Button size="large">A large button</Button>
    </div>
  );
}

render(<App />);
```

Anywhere we want to write some dynamic CSS based on props, we can use _string
interpolation_ to make our CSS string dynamic. When we use string interpolation
in `styled-components`, we can write a callback function where we access our
component's _props_ as the parameter.

From the callback function, we just need to return some string based on the prop
we're interested in: `${props => (props.primary ? "dodgerblue" : "white")}`.

> We're using a ternary expression here to keep the code concise; however,
> unlike in JSX, this isn't a requirement! The important thing is that our
> function _returns a string_, which gets parsed into the overall CSS string.
> You can write more complex logic here if you need (though it may make your CSS
> code harder to read).

The ability to use _props_ in CSS makes it easy to create flexible, reusable
components that can be customized as you like when you need to use them in
multiple parts of your application.

## Exercise

We're going to make a list styled where alternating rows have different
background colors. There are a couple styled components already set up for you.
You'll notice the `<ListItem>` component has a prop of `isEven`, which will help
determine the alternating rows:

```jsx
<ListItem key={item} isEven={(index + 1) % 2 === 0}>
  {item}
</ListItem>
```

Update the CSS for the `<ListItem>` component and change the background color of
the alternating rows using the `isEven` prop.

### Extra Credit

We're going to implement a `styled-components` version of the
[classic FizzBuzz algorithm](https://leetcode.com/problems/fizz-buzz/). The way
it should work:

- For every row divisible by _3_, the background should be _aliceblue_
- For every row divisible by _5_, the background should be _lemonchiffon_
- For every row divisible by _3 and 5_, the background should be _lightgreen_
- For all other rows, the background should be _white_

You can use this snippet to generate items for testing:

```jsx
const items = [];
for (let i = 1; i < 100; i++) {
  items.push(i);
}
```

Good luck!
